---
layout: post
title: Final New Moon of 2015
description: Sagitarrius New Moon
summary: Sagitarrius New Moon
comments: true
tags: [astro]
---



There will be a New Moon (23°22') in Sagittarius, tomorrow on December 11th, 2015 at 10:26 am UTC. During a new Moon, there is no light shining upon it - it appears to be invisible, but it affects are still strong.

As stated in previous posts, the Moon rules our emotions and during a New and Full Moon, the Moon pulls on our waters and holds a huge influence on how we react emotionally during this time.

With the Moon being in Sagittarius, the fiery Centaur, how we express and react to others emotions will be heated. But this is not a negative thing to embrace, as fire is part of the world, we need balance within the elements. The cheerfulness of the Sagittarius with the fiery aspect brings an intense joyful reaction to those around us.

Sagittarius is ruled by the largest planet, Jupiter, the planet of optimism, expansion and faith and is exalted by Cancer (the Planet that rules the Moon). This influence will drive us to step out of our old habits and expand beyond routine. We must look past our limitations and leap with good, but not blinded faith. This is a time of travel and manifesting big time goals as freedom will be very much needed.

This New Moon will be a significant New Moon as it falls on an 11 day, as the number eleven is a master number representing new beginnings and moving forward. New Moons are a great time to plant new seeds, both literally and figuratively; set new intentions and goals and move forward with them.

It is best to set goals and intentions within the first 24 hours of the New Moon as it is the most powerful time. Some prefer to write them down on paper, but you can also speak them aloud. Your thoughts will become manifestations if you allow them to be.

This will not be an easy New Moon, but it will be satisfying if you allow your passions for high goals to become reality.
