---
layout: post
title: The Benefits of Oil Pulling
description: How to oil pull
summary: How to oil pull
comments: true
tags: [jekyll, coding]
---

For the past six years, I have been oil pulling. Oil pulling is an ancient Ayurvedic technique for oral hygiene, where you swish or hold oils in your mouth for long periods of time. Because the mouth holds many good and bad bacteria, as well as toxins, oil pulling is said to "pull" these toxins out from the oral cavity.

Oil pulling does not oil remove toxins from the body, but helps with oral hygiene, giving it a fresh, clean, whitened look. Many claim that it strengthens gum  and eliminates plaque. I have also used it as a treatment for TMJ, an ailment of the jaw. Oil pulling is not only for oral hygiene however, where it can help with the following: head-aches, bronchitis, tooth pain, thrombosis, eczema, ulcers and diseases of stomach, intestines, heart, blood, kidney, liver, lungs and women’s diseases. It has also been said that oil pulling heals diseases of nerves, paralysis, and encephalitis and prevents the growth of malignant tumors.

When I oil pull, I prefer to use unrefined virgin coconut oil, as I know the oil holds many benefits. However, you can use any oil such as sesame oil and sunflower oil.

#### How to Oil Pull:
1. On an empty stomach in the morning, before drinking any water, take a tablespoon of oil (coconut oil or whatever you prefer) into your mouth, without swallowing.
2. Swish the oil around in your mouth without swallowing it. Move it around in your mouth and through your teeth, as if it was mouthwash. The oil will begin to liquify, then you can relax the process by swishing slowly. Do this for about 20 minutes. If you cannot do this for 20 minutes and spit it out before the time, start from the beginning, take your time and do it again.
3. Spit the water out and rinse your mouth with salt (Himalayan) water, as it is an antimicrobial.  The oil should look white and not clear as it was when you first inserted in your mouth.

After I oil pull, I brush with a herbal powder or neem toothpaste, to rid of the taste. I have noticed a huge difference in the whitening of my teeth. It has also cleared up my acne when I was consistent with oil pulling.
If you decide to oil pull, please leave a comment of your testimony.

Happy oil pulling!
